# Translation / i18n

<!-- toc -->

## Localisation Helper Class

The `I18n` class in Sukarix provides methods to retrieve localized strings from different translation tables. There are
four types of translation tables:

1. **Labels (`i18n.label`)**
2. **Messages (`i18n.message`)**
3. **Errors (`i18n.error`)**
4. **Lists (`i18n.list`)**

## Methods

### lbl

Fetches a localized label.

```php
public function lbl($key): string
```

### msg

Fetches a localized message.

```php
public function msg($key): string
```

### err

Fetches a localized error message.

```php
public function err($key): string
```

### lst

Fetches a localized list.

```php
public function lst($key): array
```

## Example Usage

```php
$i18n = Injector::instance()->get('i18n');
echo $i18n->lbl('welcome'); // Fetches the 'welcome' label
echo $i18n->msg('greeting'); // Fetches the 'greeting' message
echo $i18n->err('not_found'); // Fetches the 'not_found' error message
print_r($i18n->lst('countries')); // Fetches the 'countries' list
```

## locales.js

The `locales.js` file handles loading and switching of localisation data in JSON format.

### Functions

- **loadLocale**: Loads the locale data from a JSON file.
- **init**: Initializes the locale settings and language menu.
- **initLanguageMenu**: Sets up the language selection menu.
- **setLocale**: Sets the current locale.
- **switchLocale**: Switches to the selected locale and updates the displayed strings.
- **translaterStrings**: Updates all strings in the document with localized content.
- **get**: Retrieves a localized string based on type, module, and key.
- **err**: Retrieves a localized error message.
- **lbl**: Retrieves a localized label.
- **loc**: Retrieves a localized string.
- **msg**: Retrieves a localized message.
- **lst**: Retrieves a localized list item.

## Example Usage in locales.js

```javascript
Locale.init(); // Initializes the locale settings
Locale.setLocale('en-GB'); // Sets the current locale to 'en-GB'
Locale.switchLocale('fr-FR'); // Switches to 'fr-FR' and updates the displayed strings
```

## Routing for JSON localisation

The routing for generating JSON localisation files is defined as follows:

```php
GET @locale: /locale/json/@locale.json = Sukarix\Actions\Core\GetLocale->execute
```

## Caching

JSON locale data is cached whenever the translation file is updated to improve performance and reduce load times.
~~~~